Chroot Install Request Guidelines
=================================

<small>(stored here for reference,
[original announcement is available](http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel-announce/2010/05/msg00002.html))</small>

In order to make dealing with install requests easier for us please
observe the following guidelines:

1. Install requests should be directed to `debian-admin@lists.debian.org` (and
  only there) and the subject should be formed as following:

        Subject: [b-d][$arch|$machine] foobar ($chroot)

 Please start all mails concerning porting chroots with the [b-d] (short for
 build-depends) tag.

 Either choose [$arch] (eg. hppa) or a specific [$machine] (eg. paer) and tell
 us which package's build dependencies should be installed.

 If you omit $chroot we will assume you meant sid/unstable.

 So build-deps for openoffice.org on smetana in the lenny chroot would look
 like this:

        Subject: [b-d][smetana] openoffice.org (lenny)

 This kind of subject tagging will make it easier for us to quickly classify
 mail in the admin mailbox, allowing us to sort it into heaps that DSA has to
 handle and into requests that our helpers can most likely deal with.

2. Please refrain giving us a long list of packages to install if possible.
 That is, if a simple `apt-get build-dep $foo` will satisfy your request then
 all we require is the value of $foo.

 If however the source package isn't yet listed in the chroot's Sources· file
 (because it's new or in experimental for instance) that won't be possible.  In
 that case you will have to provide a list of packages for us to install.
 Please cut it down so that it is copy/pastable to an apt-get install command
 line, i.e. do not include any `foo | bar` constructs or version constraints
 (>= 2.71828).
