Facilities offered to teams with dedicated debian.org subdomains
================================================================

Various teams have dedicated subdomains below debian.org (e.g
release.debian.org, qa.debian.org, etc.). Associated to it,
there's usually a website and e-mail addresses. The corresponding
files are always in `/srv/foo.debian.org/` on the host allocated
to the service by the DSA team.

Website 
-------

The Apache virtual host configuration usually resides in
`/srv/foo.debian.org/apache.conf`. After having changed the configuration,
you should be able to reload apache with
`sudo /usr/sbin/apache2-vhost-update` (provided that you have correctly
configured a sudo password for the corresponding host).

Virtual Domain Mail Settings
----------------------------

The configuration of the mail service usually resides in
`/srv/foo.debian.org/mail/`.

The following files enable you to create various email addresses:

* __aliases__: just like `/etc/aliases`, you can create e-mail addresses that
  forward the messages to one or more recipients.
* __.forward-*__: qmail like forward files where `.forward-bar` defines how
  emails sent to bar@foo.debian.org are handled. It can be used to redirect
  mails to programs (eg. `|/srv/foo.debian.org/bin/processmail.pl`) or
  to mailboxes (eg. `/srv/foo.debian.org/mail/archive/bar`). Just put
  each destination on its own line.
* __.forward-default__: like above, except it handles all the e-mail addresses
  that are not covered by an alias or another .forward-* file.

There are also various files that can be used to control the
antispam measures of each email address:

* **callout_users**: a simple list of local parts (before the @) that should
  have callout sender verification applied.
* **grey_users**: a simple list of local parts that should have
  greylisting applied.
* **neversenders**: a simple list of local parts (of the virtual domain) that
  should never appear as senders of mails.
* **whitelist**: a colon separated list starting with "localpart:" of hosts
  and IP patterns to whitelist from any antispam measures configured in this
  directory.
* **rbllist**: a colon separated list starting with "localpart:" of RBL
  lists to perform lookups in. Example for owner@foo.debian.org:

        owner: zen.spamhaus.org : safe.dnsbl.sorbs.net

* **rhsbllist**: a colon separated list starting with "localpart:" of RHSBL
  lists to perform lookups in. This should be in the form of
  "RHSBL.example/$sender_address_domain". Example for owner@foo.debian.org:

        owner: bogusmx.rfc-ignorant.org/$sender_address_domain : nomail.rhsbl.sorbs.net/$sender_address_domain

You can find examples of the last two files on any debian.org system
in /var/lib/misc/thishost as mail-rbl and mail-rhsbl.

